---
title: Mobile App Development
subtitle: Execution isn’t everything, it’s the only thing.
---

<video class="full-video" muted autoplay loop style="margin-top: 30px;
margin-bottom:
30px;">
	<source src="/videos/app-process.mov">
</video>


## Phase 1: Product Design Sprint (PDS)

Whether it’s an iOS, Android, or Web app (or all three!), our process kicks off
with a two day Product Design Sprint (PDS). During this time, we will uncover
exactly what the purpose of your app is, identify assumptions, and come up with
a clear path to success for building the most reliable app in the least amount
of time. 

If you’re struggling to determine which platform to launch your app on, check
out our blog post [Native vs. Web vs Hybrid Apps](/blog/native-web-hybrid).


### PDS Overview

#### Day 1-2

Step 1: Defining the problem. We put everything we know on the table (i.e your
expertise). We gather all existing information on your business, the end user,
the challenge and exposing assumptions and knowledge gaps. We then prioritize
what feels to be the riskiest knowledge gaps and validate or invalidate the most
dangerous assumptions. By the end of Step 1, the entire room has a clear
understanding of the problem we are trying to solve.

Step 2: Diverge. Aim to explore as many possibilities as possible (that’s fun to
say, right?), regardless of how realistic, feasible or viable they may be. We
make each team member sketch a quick three potential solutions in five minutes.
The purpose of this activity is to generate many ways of solving the challenge,
realistic or not.

Step 3: Needs, Wants, Desires. Start a list of every single feature the app
could have, regardless of how crazy. We then put the features into a category of
needs, wants, and desires. This will help us determine what features have to be
in our MVP (Minimum Viable Product) vs which features can be added over time. 

#### Day 3-4

*Now that you've been able to sleep/digest everything...*

Step 4: Decision time. Settle on the right path. We take all of the
possibilities discussed over the past three phases and hone in on a single
version of the MVP. A fresh pass at our needs, wants, desires outline ensures we
gathered all the necessary information. 

Step 5: Outline. Your final deliverable is a PDF document that outlines what
everyone has agreed are the appropriate features to build a successful MVP. The
document clearly outlines each "view/page/feature" of your app, empowering you
to fully understand what you are looking for and what you need to bring this
business to life.

Within 24 hours, if not on the spot, we will provide an estimate as to what it
will cost for us to build the MVP.

## Phase 2: Minimum Viable Product (MVP)

Industry best practice has proven that regardless of how much you know about a
product, developing a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) and getting genuine, user
tested, feedback is the most efficient and cost effective process for developing
an app. 

With this in mind, and having clearly outlined what the “needs” (see Phase 1,
Step 3), of your app are, WeDIA will begin to develop your MVP. An MVP is
exactly what it sounds like; a bare-bones version of your app, consistent of
only the most important/core features that embody the solution to the problem
your app is solving. 

This is an opportunity to get something to market quickly for relatively cheap.
For many startups, the MVP is necessary to not only gather user feedback, but to
go out and raise funds for future development of the app (based off of the
“wants/desires” sections of Phase 1, Step 3).

## Phase 3: Ongoing Development

Now that we have collected feedback from a select group of users, providing
validity to your apps concept and users interest in it, WeDIA will begin to
implement suggestions/modifications uncovered during user testing, as well as
beginning to build out the features in the “wants/desires” categories from phase
two. 

Feature roll-outs are intended to be broken into phases to allow for user
feedback. We do not encourage anyone to simply build and entire app without
continuous feedback from their users.

