---
title: SEO/SEM
subtitle: What gets measured gets improved.
---

## Phase 1: Research, Discovery & Strategy 

Similar to our social media marketing process, a Research, Discovery and
Strategy phase is a vital part of our process. During this phase, WeDIA learns
how your website is currently ranking within Search, insight into what your
competitors are doing (both right and wrong), initial assessment of your sites
existing SEO efforts and reviewal of past Google Ads efforts. 

WeDIA then goes page by page on your site, outlining our recommendations to help
your site rank higher within Search. We will also make suggestions on how to
optimize your Google Ads strategy. 

To learn more about the difference between SEO and SEM, check out our blog post
[SEO vs SEM for Newbies](/blog/soe-sem).

The final deliverable is a 15+ page PDF that includes an executive summary,
competitive landscape analysis, reporting/benchmark recommendations, page by
page suggestions, and multiple budget options for on-going execution by WeDIA.
We then arrange a call or meeting to walk you through a modest deck that
highlights some of the key findings, addresses your questions, and provides
clarity around budget options.

You will be presented 2-3 different options for WeDIA’s on-going execution. The
difference between these options is dependent upon which suggestions you’d like
to implement, paid media spend (the amount of money you spend on ads), and paid
media campaign development/management. These options are informed by the
research and discovery done throughout the initial part of this phase.  

## Phase 2: Execution

With an agreed upon scope in place, WeDIA will begin to implement/optimize SEO
on your site and create SEM campaigns (Google Ads). Our process is focused on
iterating and optimizing over time to ensure that while your website gains more
traffic, we are constantly quantifying and qualifying a variety of content and
audiences. Understanding what resonates with your audience(s) is an essential
tool for long-term growth and cost effective advertising. 

Through a paid approach (i.e Google Ads), you are able to target specific micro
audiences based on the keywords/phrases that they search for within a variety of
search platforms. This form of advertising is widely accepted as the most
accurate and cost effective form of advertising.
