---
title: Web Development
subtitle: Let's build something your users will love.

---

## Phase 1: Understanding the Site 

First things first, tell us EVERYTHING. For WeDIA to build you the most
impactful site possible, we want to fully understand your vision and the
functionality the site will be capable of delivering. Do site visitors need to
be able to book appointments? Make payments? Live chat? Etc. Go as far as to
share examples of websites you like and DON’T like. This provides a great sense
of what excites you, and what we should avoid. 

## Phase 2: Hosting

Having clarity around the scope of the site, WeDIA can determine which platform
is best to host the site on. Generally, either Wordpress or SquareSpace. 

Wordpress is more expensive and time consuming, though it has the advantage of
being fully customizable - meaning if you can dream it, we can build it.

Alternatively, SquareSpace is a great fit for lower budget, fast turnaround
sites that need limited customization or advanced functionality. Since
SquareSpace requires starting from a template (there are thousands to choose
from), WeDIA may not be able to customize every part of your site.

For more information about which hosting platform is best for you, check out our
blog post [SquareSpace vs WordPress](/blog/squarespace-vs-wordpress).

## Phase 3: Sitemap

Consider a sitemap to be your websites “skeleton”. An example sitemap may look
like the following outline: 

```
// TODO: ADD ILLUSTRATION WITH OUTLINE
```

## Phase 4: Development 

Agreed upon sitemap in hand, let the fun begin. While we’ll do the heavy
lifting, this is going to be a team effort - welcome to the squad! You will be
responsible for coming up with language to fill the site (i.e about section,
employee bio’s, etc). If this stresses you out, we came prepared to help. We
have templates/example content that you can work off of for each section you’ll
be responsible for. 

Throughout the entire process we line up weekly reviews between a WeDIA
developer and your team to touch base on your sites progress and make real time
adjustments. You may play as active of a role in the process as you’d like,
though we are conscious of your busy schedule. Combine the content you’ve built
out with our work on the formation of your site, and before you know it, the
site is live. 


